.\"
.\" gnupot.man
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2015 frnmst (Franco Masotti) <franco.masotti@live.com>
.\"                                            <franco.masotti@student.unife.it>
.\"
.\" This file is part of GNUpot.
.\"
.\" GNUpot is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" GNUpot is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with GNUpot.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"


.TH GNUPOT 1 "November 2015" "0.3" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
gnupot \- Libre file syncronization witten in bash, based on git.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gnupot 
[OPTION]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Yet another libre Dropbox clone (only for the right aspects) written in bash 
and based on git.
.PP
Only a single option is permitted.

.TP
.B -d
.RS
Start GNUpot in debug mode. The program will behave normally but all the 
execution flow will be shown on the console. This is useful to detect 
and report problems to the developers.
.RE

.TP
.B -h
.RS
Show GNUpot's help.
.RE

.TP
.B -i
.RS
Start GNUpot. This is the same as executing it without option.
.RE

.TP
.B -k
.RS
Quit GNUpot.
.RE

.TP
.B -l
.RS
Show GNUpot's license.
.RE

.TP
.B -n
.RS
Setup a GNUpot instance.
.RE

.TP
.B -p
.RS
Print configuration file.
.RE

.TP
.B -s
.RS
Show if GNUpot is running or not.
.RE

.TP
.B -v
.RS
Show GNUpot's version.
.RE

.TP
.B
Exit status:
.RS
0 No error,
.PP
.RE
.RS
1 Some kind of error (printed on stderr).
.RE

.SH FILES
.I ~/.config/gnupot
.RS
Directory of the configuration file as well as the SSH keys (by default 
configuration).
.RE

.I ~/.config/gnupot.config
.RS
GNUpot's configuration file.
.RE

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Franco Masotti <franco.masotti@student.unife.it>

.SH REPORT BUGS
Report bugs in the issue page: <https://github.com/frnmst/gnupot/issues>
.br
or email at: <franco.masotti@student.unife.it>

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2015 frnmst/Franco Masotti.   License  GPLv3+:  GNU GPL version 3 
or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.br
This  is  free  software:  you  are free to change and redistribute it. There 
is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

.SH SEE ALSO
Full documentation (i.e. server configuration) at: 
<https://github.com/frnmst/gnupot/wiki>
.PP
.BR gnupot.conf(5),
.BR bash(1),
.BR ssh(1),
.BR ssh_config(5),
.BR git(1),
.BR inotifywait(1),
.BR trickle(1),
.BR notify-send\ --help.
