.\"
.\" gnupot.config.man
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2015 frnmst (Franco Masotti) <franco.masotti@live.com>
.\"                                            <franco.masotti@student.unife.it>
.\"
.\" This file is part of GNUpot.
.\"
.\" GNUpot is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" GNUpot is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with GNUpot.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"


.TH GNUPOT 5 "August 2015" "0.1" "File Formats Manual"

.SH NAME
gnupot.conf \- Configuration file for GNUpot.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ~/.config/gnupot/gnupot.config

.SH DESCRIPTION
GNUpot has one configuration file only. SSH keys file are used as well.
.br
All the options are required.
.br
All variables with numbers must be positive integers.
.br
All variables with paths must contain full paths except 
.B gnupotRemoteDir
which can refer to the relative path starting from the remote home.
.br
The syntax is always: 
.I variableName="value"
i.e. the 
.B bash(1)
syntax when assigning a value to a variable.
.br
Default values for most variables are loaded during the setup.
.PP

.TP
.B gnupotServer
.RS
A string, without spaces (ASCII 32), containing the server address or hostname.
.br
This variable is used by SSH.
.RE

.TP
.B gnupotServerUsername
.RS
A string containing the server (remote) username.
.br
This variable is used by SSH.
.RE

.TP
.B gnupotRemoteDir
.RS
A string containing the remote watch directory.
.br
It refers to the relative path from the remote user's home if a not full path 
is used, i.e. if 
.B gnupotServerUsername
is
.B user
then the remote home should be
.B /home/user
.br
This means that if
.B gnupotRemoteDir
is, for example,
.B rdir
then the assumed path is
.B /home/user/rdir
.br
If
.B gnupotRemoteDir
is a full path then that path will be used.
.RE

.TP
.B gnupotLocalDir
.RS
A string containing the full path of the local watch directory (the git 
repository).
.RE

.TP
.B
gnupotSSHKeyPath
.RS
A string containing the full path of the SSH private key used to connect to the 
server. The public key path is
.B gnupotSSHKeyPath.pub
.RE

.TP
.B gnupotRSAKeyBits
.RS
An unsigned integer between 1024 and 16384 containing the number of bits used 
to generate the RSA key pair.
.br
Although this variable is only used during the setup, it has been put here for 
reference.
.RE

.TP
.B gnupotKeepMaxCommits
.RS
An unsigned integer containing the maximum of git commits to keep. A value of 0 
means to keep all commits.
.br
This means that every 
.B gnupotKeepMaxCommits
history is truncated and starts from that current commit.
.RE

.TP
.B
gnupotInotifyFileExclude
.RS
A string that contains the exclude pattern for files for 
.B inotifywait(1) 
in POSIX extended regex.
.RE

.TP
.B gnupotGitFileExclude
.RS
A string that contains the exclude pattern for files for git in globbing style. 
This option acts like the
.B gitignore(5)
file but locally (i.e. it is not commited).
.br
This information it is infact written in 
.B gnupot/.git/info/exclude
.br
Each exclude rule must be separated from a literal
.B \en
character. 
.br
This option cannot be ignored during the setup, but it can 
be set to an empty string in the configuration file, after that.
.RE

.TP
.B gnupotGitCommitterUsername
.RS
A string containing the username of the git committer.
.RE

.TP
.B gnupotGitCommitterEmail
.RS
A string containing the email of the git committer.
.RE

.TP
.B gnupotTimeToWaitForOtherChanges
.RS
An unsigned integer containing the number of seconds to wait for new 
file changes after an initial change.
.br
This means that if the file
.B a
is changed a countdown of
.B gnupotTimeToWaitForOtherChanges
seconds starts. When the countdown terminates the file 
.B a
 , or any other file modified in that interval is committed and sent to the 
server.
.br
This variable is applied both to the local and remote directory.
.RE

.TP
.B gnupotBusyWaitTime
.RS
An unsigned integer containing the number of seconds to wait if there is any 
kind of connection problem with the server. After that timeout a new connection 
tries to be established.
.RE

.TP
.B gnupotSSHServerAliveInterval
.RS
An unsigned integer containing the number of seconds to wait before 
establishing a new connection to the server, when that server is unreachable.
.br
This means that if no packets are received from the server a timeout of
.B gnupotSSHServerAliveInterval
starts. When the timeout is over a packet is sent to the server and if that 
packet is not returned for
.B gnupotSSHServerAliveCountMax
, then a new connection is established.
.br
A value of 0 means that server alive messages will not be sent.
.br
This variable depends on 
.B gnupotSSHServerAliveCountMax
.br
For further information read
.B ssh_config(5)
.RE

.TP
.B gnupotSSHServerAliveCountMax
.RS
An unsigned integer containing the number of attempts to do to 
establish a new connection if the current one is not responsive.
.br
This means that if the connection is unresponsive for
.B gnupotSSHServerAliveInterval
seconds for
.B gnupotSSHServerAliveCountMax
times, then a new conection is established.
.br
This variable depends on 
.B gnupotSSHServerAliveInterval
.br
For further information read
.B ssh_config(5)
.RE

.TP
.B gnupotSSHMasterSocketPath
.RS
A string containing the full path of the master SSH socket. This avoids 
multiple SSH authentications that would slow down gnupot.
.br
This socket should be in a directory readable and writable only by the
intended user. If that is not the case anyone could use the master socket to
connect to the server without any password nor key request whatsoever.
.RE

.TP
.B gnupotDefaultNotificationTime
.RS
An unsigned integer containing the number of milliseconds for the desktop 
notification to be visible.
.RE

.TP
.B gnupotLockFilePath
.RS
A string containing the full path of the lock file that avoids double 
syncronization (i.e. if a file is changed on the client this is sent to the 
server, but the server thread sees the (same) modified file and so start 
another syncronization).
.br
If present it is advisable to use shared memory to avoid writing on disk.
For example check if "df | grep shm" has an output. In that case
.B /dev/shm/lockFile
can be used as a value for the variable.
.RE

.TP
.B gnupotDownloadSpeed
.RS
An unsigned integer containing the maximum download speed, expressed in KB/s, 
from the server. 
.br
A value of 0 does not set any limit.
.RE

.TP
.B gnupotUploadSpeed
.RS
The same as
.B gnupotDownloadSpeed 
except that this is the upload speed.
.RE

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Franco Masotti <franco.masotti@student.unife.it>

.SH REPORT BUGS
Report bugs in the issue page: <https://github.com/frnmst/gnupot/issues>
.br
or email at: <franco.masotti@student.unife.it>

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2015 frnmst/Franco Masotti.   License  GPLv3+:  GNU GPL version 3 
or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.br
This  is  free  software:  you  are free to change and redistribute it. There 
is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

.SH SEE ALSO
Full documentation (i.e. server configuration) at: 
<https://github.com/frnmst/gnupot/wiki>
.PP
.BR gnupot(1),
.BR bash(1),
.BR ssh(1),
.BR ssh_config(5),
.BR git(1),
.BR gitignore(5),
.BR inotifywait(1),
.BR trickle(1),
.BR notify-send\ --help.
