README.md, before:

GNUpot
======

Yet another libre Dropbox clone (only for the right aspects) written in bash. 

##Purpose of this project

Lots of us using Dropbox (or similar) like its functionalities. However 
these services have some defects:
- Your data could be anywhere in the world.
  - This means you don't have full control over your own files.
- Size limits
  - Usually of a few Gigabytes.
- Clients used to access these servces are usually proprietary.
- These program are also heavy (in terms of disk,  memory and processor usage).
- What are you going to do if those *owners* close the services?

The aim of this project is to have a completely free (as in freedom) 
replacement for Dropbox (and also similar services) that runs exclusively in 
our computers. All of this is done following the *K-I-S-S* (Keep It Simple, 
Stupid) principal.

**ANY HELP IN CONTRIBUTING TO THIS PROJECT IS WARMLY WELCOMED.**

**LOTS OF DEVELOPMENT IS NEEDED.**

###Why the name GNUpot

- **GNU** beause of the freedom associated to this program.
- **pot** because it gives the idea of some type of container.

##Ideas behind the project

- Simple.
  - Use of `bash` as scripting language makes the program overall very 
    integrated with a GNU/Linux system (as well as other UNIX-like systems). 
  - Programming and manteinance should also be trivial this way.
- When some kind of change is made, this is sent automatically to the server 
  (or to the client).
  - This is possible with `inotify` which looks for changes inside the watch 
    directories both on client and server.
- Encrypted and passord-less communication between client and server.
  - `ssh` is very suitable and malleable for this job. **SOME TODO (keys).**
- Minimal bandwidth usage.
  - If we are setting up a server at home it is unlikely to have fast upload 
    speed. We have to avoid to use all available upload (and even download 
    bandwidth) on server side (especially).
- Desktop notifications.
  - When an event is originated (either on client or on server) user must be 
    notified. The command `notify-send` is perfect for this because of its 
    simplicity.
- Solid syncing agent.
  - `rsync` would be great for this but it is only designed for mirroring.~~We 
    need something more sophistiated like `unison`. I don't know yet if `git` 
    would be better.~~ Unison has some defects (see merge command), so I've 
    decided to switch to `git`. **WORK IN PROGERSS.**
- Automatic file conflict detection and resolution. **WORK IN PROGRESS**.
- Automatic backup to a maximum user defined number of backups. **TODO**
- Easily shareble directories.
  - User and groups are managed by simple text files on the server. **TODO.**
- No server-side program running.
  - Only programs like `inotify` and `unison` needs to be installed on the 
    server. **WORK IN PROGRESS**.

###WARNING

**THIS IS A WORK IN PROGESS. DON'T EXPECT THAT IT WORKS OUT OF THE BOX.**

##Howto

```
$ git clone https://github.com/frnmst/gnupot.git
$ cd gnupot
```
At this early stage you must:
- Edit `gnupot.config` based on your needs.
- Be sure to have an ssh server up and running.
- Be able to connect to that server with private/public keys (i.e. passwordless).
- Install the packets described below.
- Create local and remote destination directories.

One you have completed all the previous points you can actually run the program:
```
$ ./gnupot
```

###Packets to install (dependencies)

- bash 4.3.033-1
  - Server and client.
- openssh 6.8p1-2
  - Server and client.
- inotify-tools 3.14-4 (inotifywait) [Tells the script that some changes have 
  been made to a certain file.]
  - Server and client.
- util-linux 2.26.1-3 (flock) [Locks script and avoids contemporary local and
  remote sync.]
  - Client only.
- libnotify 0.7.6-1 (notify-send) [Sends notifications to notification server.]
  - Client only.
- #Be sure to have 1 and only 1 notify server installed. It should be already 
  installed on your system.
  #dunst () [Lightweight notification server; it displays notifications.]
  - Client only.
- unison (unison) [Program that syncs file. It's a two way rsync].
  - Server and client.

##Contact

franco.masotti@live.com or franco.masotti@student.unife.it

Commit message:

Updated README.md and written some ideas as comments.

README.md, after:

GNUpot
======

Yet another libre Dropbox clone (only for the right aspects) written in bash. 

##Purpose of this project

Lots of us using Dropbox (or similar) like its functionalities. However 
these services have some defects:
- Your data could be anywhere in the world.
  - This means you don't have full control over your own files.
- Size limits
  - Usually of a few Gigabytes.
- Clients used to access these servces are usually proprietary.
- These program are also heavy (in terms of disk,  memory and processor usage).
- What are you going to do if those *owners* close the services?

The aim of this project is to have a completely free (as in freedom) 
replacement for Dropbox (and also similar services) that runs exclusively in 
our computers. All of this is done following the *K-I-S-S* (Keep It Simple, 
Stupid) principal.

**ANY HELP IN CONTRIBUTING TO THIS PROJECT IS WARMLY WELCOMED.**

**LOTS OF DEVELOPMENT IS NEEDED.**

###Why the name GNUpot

- **GNU** beause of the freedom associated to this program.
- **pot** because it gives the idea of some type of container.

##Ideas behind the project

- Simple.
  - Use of `bash` as scripting language makes the program overall very 
    integrated with a GNU/Linux system (as well as other UNIX-like systems). 
  - Programming and manteinance should also be trivial this way.
- When some kind of change is made, this is sent automatically to the server 
  (or to the client).
  - This is possible with `inotify` which looks for changes inside the watch 
    directories both on client and server.
- Encrypted and passord-less communication between client and server.
  - `ssh` is very suitable and malleable for this job. **SOME TODO (keys).**
- Minimal bandwidth usage.
  - If we are setting up a server at home it is unlikely to have fast upload 
    speed. We have to avoid to use all available upload (and even download 
    bandwidth) on server side (especially).
- Desktop notifications.
  - When an event is originated (either on client or on server) user must be 
    notified. The command `notify-send` is perfect for this because of its 
    simplicity.
- Solid syncing agent.
  - `git` is designed for collaboration and has an excellent SSH support. 
     **WORK IN PROGERSS.**
- Automatic file conflict detection and resolution. **WORK IN PROGRESS**.
- Automatic backup to a maximum user defined number of backups. **TODO**
- Easily shareble directories.
  - User and groups are managed by simple text files on the server. **TODO.**
- No server-side program running.
  - Only programs like `inotify` and `git` needs to be installed on the 
    server. **WORK IN PROGRESS**.

###WARNING

**THIS IS A WORK IN PROGESS. DON'T EXPECT THAT IT WORKS OUT OF THE BOX.**

##Howto

```
$ git clone https://github.com/frnmst/gnupot.git
$ cd gnupot
```
At this early stage you must:
- Edit `gnupot.config` based on your needs.
- Be sure to have an ssh server up and running.
- Be able to connect to that server with private/public keys (i.e. passwordless).
- Install the packets described below.
- Create local and remote destination directories.

One you have completed all the previous points you can actually run the program:
```
$ ./gnupot
```

###Packets to install (dependencies)

- bash 4.3.033-1
  - Server and client.
- openssh 6.8p1-2
  - Server and client.
- inotify-tools 3.14-4 (inotifywait) [Tells the script that some changes have 
  been made to a certain file.]
  - Server and client.
- util-linux 2.26.1-3 (flock) [Locks script and avoids contemporary local and
  remote sync.]
  - Client only.
- libnotify 0.7.6-1 (notify-send) [Sends notifications to notification server.]
  - Client only.
- #Be sure to have 1 and only 1 notify server installed. It should be already 
  installed on your system.
  #dunst () [Lightweight notification server; it displays notifications.]
  - Client only.
- git (git) [Program that syncs file and does versioning control].
  - Server and client.

##Contact

franco.masotti@live.com or franco.masotti@student.unife.it
